Now I'm big fan of the Grails framework as well so if you're not familiar with Grails it is basically
a Groovy wrapper around the Spring Framework.
And they did some extensions and they pretty much stole shamelessly from the Ruby on Rails guys but
extend out a lot of concepts that they did there.
Now one of the things that they do a nice job is they have a Bootstrap initialisation Class inside of
Grails.
And I'm really kind of taking this from there because now we have a lot of the foundation laid we have
an H2 database and in-memory database ourselves.
So a real common use case is for us to initialize data in the database.
So we are going to use Spring to do this we'll write a  Bootstrap Class here.
And what we're going to do is in Spring the Spring Framework has inventing Framework.
And one of those events is when the context is up and ready.
So we're going to tap into that event and use that to populate our database when we bring it up.
We'll run run some code to populate our database so we have a known set of data that we can work with
going forward in this course.
I'm going to show you exactly how to do that I'm going to jump over an Intellij well write a little
bootstrap class to populate data into our author and books table.
OK.
So what I've done is I've gone ahead and created a Dev Bootstrap Class and I like to put these in a
package called bootstrap and I'm going to show you how to configure everything for Spring to get this
wired up.
Now the first thing that we want to do is have a implement an ApplicationListener
and the event that we want as a ContextRefreshEvent
event.
Now to implement this just add command and implement methods.
So we're going to onApplicationEvent and you can see there on line 18.
I have initData method so that's what we want to call and so that we'll get called on that.
But this only creates two or actually four objects so it creates a a an author called Eric,
Eric Evans we saw him with the Domain Driven Design earlier and we also create a book for Domain Driven
Design and then we create the associations between the two.
And then we also create a an Author called Rod Johnson who's accredited as being the founder
of the Spring Framework he wrote a pivotal book called J2EE development without EJB.
Remember this.
Back when J2EE was just awful and it was really bad to work with.
So that's kind of what born in the Spring Primer many many moons ago
so honoring Rod our code and what we wanna do is save this.
So we need to do a couple things.
One is we need to add this as a Spring Component.
So I'm going to add it to the
so that now makes this a Spring Bean.
So now this will get wired up by the Spring Context.
You know we need to do two more things.
One is to add in our AuthorRepository
in our BookRepository
now that these are there but no Autowiring is happening so as we know or maybe don't know that Spring
does dependency injection so i'm gonna declare a constructor to have these both get injected.
So now we're going to use constructor auto injection through its Spring Framework so at runtime what's
going to happen is this class will get created and managed by the Spring Framework.
And the author and book repository which we're going to get an implementation of from Spring Data JPA
those are gonna get autowired into here.
So what we need to do is come down here and do author.save eric
book.save ddd for Domain Driven Design.
And we need to do same for rod
and that should be all that we need to do.
So let's go out and run this now.
I'm actually rerunning it.
See things started up now I should be able to go to over to the H-2 database console. In Chrome we've looked
before, do a refresh here.
Now we need to reconnect to it so i'm connecting now.
So let's take a look at that.
We'll run that and we can see that we now have two records populated for Eric Evans and Ron Johnson.
Let's take a look at this because you got to clear it.
Now we can do that say we're select it and now we can see that we also have the IDs of the books populate
it so everything worked OK.
You can see how easy it was to do while we did had to do is implement that one class.
And now that class is because it is managed as a spring being in the Spring context it's going to get
wired up for us.
And then when that event gets thrown that context the event gets thrown our repository interface is
going to catch those transactions and actually populate out of the database and hibernate for us and
be a hibernate and into the H-2 database so kind of a very handy feature I use isn't a developmental
lot because what I want is when I'm developing a Web Application I want to have a set of known data
so I don't have to go and search products all the time and stuff like that I want to have something
that I can bring up and display tables and stuff.
So this is a real handy little trick.
Now of course you're protected some further down the road.
You don't want to be inserting data into production that would be a no no.
And I'll show you mechanism's how to do that.
But for your local development this is just a really awesome tool to have.